+++
banner = "/files/placeholder.png"
categories = ["세미나"]
date = 2023-04-18T07:00:00Z
icon = "microphone"
title = "[세미나] 김형준 교수"

+++
### Meta-Earth Technology and Climate Crisis

#### 김형준 교수

#### 2023년 4월 18일 (화) 16:00

#### 과학관 B102호

#### Abstract
Climate change is causing an increase in extreme weather events, such as hurricanes, heatwaves, and
droughts. Unfortunately, this trend is only expected to continue as the planet gets warmer. The future
climate trajectories will depend on the levels and timing of efforts put into mitigating greenhouse gas
emissions. This means that we all have a role to play in creating a safer future.
Global temperature increase is nearly proportional to the global cumulative greenhouse gas emissions,
which have been contributed to at different levels by each country and every individual in the world
population. However, global mitigation efforts alone may not be enough to prevent the worst impacts
of climate change. It is also crucial to adapt to the changes that are already happening, such as rising
sea levels and more frequent natural disasters. This is why it is essential to strike a balance between
mitigation and adaptation strategies. A seamless framework that considers space and time is necessary
to assess the cause and effect of both mitigation and adaptation in a comprehensive manner.
One such tool that can help us achieve this is "Meta-Earth." Meta-Earth is a digital twin of the Earth
system. It incorporates the human system, which is crucial in the Anthropocene epoch characterized by
significant human impacts on the planet. It allows us to simulate the effects of various climate scenarios
and assess their impacts on different regions of the world. By using Meta-Earth, we can develop more
effective strategies to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions and adapt to the changes that are already
happening in the real world.
As such, it is essential to keep up-to-date with the latest research and international initiatives to better
understand and address the challenges we face. The seminar provides updates on the basic science of
climate change and introduces examples of research that demonstrate the potential of "Meta-Earth".
ref)
Madakumbura, D. G., H. Kim, N. Utsumi, H. Shiogama, E. M. Fischer, Ø. Seland, J. F. Scinocca, D.
M. Mitchell, Y. Hirabayashi and T. Oki (2019), Event-to-event intensification of the hydrologic
cycle in 1.5°C and 2°C warmer worlds, Scientific Reports, doi:10.1038/s41598-019-39936-2
Padrón, R. S., L. Gudmundsson, A. Ducharne, D. M. Lawrence, J. Mao, D. Peano, J. Colin, G. Krinner,
H. Kim and S. I. Seneviratne (2020) Observed changes in dry season water availability attributed
to human-induced climate change, Nat. Geosci., doi.org/10.1038/s41561-020-0594-1
Satoh, Y., K. Yoshimura, Y. Pokhrel, H. Kim, H. Shiogama, T. Yokohata, N. Hanasaki, Y. Wada, P.
Burek, E. Byers, H.M. Schmied, D. Gerten, S. Ostberg, S. N. Gosling, J.E.S. Boulange and T. Oki
(2022) The timing of unprecedented hydrological drought under climate change, Nat. Comm.
Shiogama, H., M. Watanabe, H. Kim and N. Hirota (2022) Emergent constraints on future precipitation
changes, Nature, 602, 612–616, doi.org/10.1038/s41586-021-04310-8
Utsumi, N. and H. Kim (2022) Observed influence of anthropogenic climate change on typhoon heavy
rainfall, Nature Climate Change, 12, 436–440